1.3 Real Time Hydrologic Stations
=================================

In parallel to the adaptive-resolution hydrologic and hydraulic characterization of the watershed, a network of :term:`RTHS` will be deployed across the :term:`LRGV` as a catalyst for inter-jurisdictional collaboration and holistic flood, water quality and ecological management. :term:`RTHS` deployments will be strategically located to serve the following decision making needs:

*   Locations on the main drains and Resaca networks to characterize regional drainage patterns and to promote holistic decision making regarding regional flood-flow routing and siting of Regional Detention Facilities.
*   Local, off-mainstem locations to provide flood-front early warning for localities experiencing recurring flooding, and to validate catchment-scale hydraulic models used for design development of structural controls such as high-volume pumping and major diversion structure or culverts.

The combination of adaptive resolution forecasting and validation with RTHS data will provide high confidence in early warnings. Further, as has been used in other water management domains (drinking water distribution and wastewater collection), deviations between model forecasts and RTHS data can be used to identify impending structural failures.

The RTHS deployments will be served by the River and Estuary Observation Network (REON) Cyberinfrastructure (REON.cc) that has been in continuous operation for 15 years, currently serving over 70 RTHS in providing real time decision support hydrologic and water quality data to local, regional and state decision makers.

RTHS sensors and base stations are designed, developed and deployed by Research, Applied Technology, Education and Service, Inc. (RATES) with a primary vision of “democratizing water intelligence” by making them affordable to small organizations. This is accomplished by reducing the component and life cycle of the incorporated technologies without sacrificing reliability, accuracy and precision. Operational costs are further reduced, and deployment sustainability is maximized by providing deployment strategies via a membership subscription model. This affords member entities turnkey solutions with nominal initial and ongoing annual investments.
A basic RTHS unit, consisting of base station with cellular telemetry, a full meteorological
sensor suite, and a stage height sensor with surveyed location and elevation and discharge
rating curves developed annually is typically deployed within the LRGV for a $15,000 initial
investment and $10,000 annual operations cost thereafter. Ensuring the location and elevation of the RTHS is accurately surveyed enables water level recording relative to a standard datum across the REON network and for that data to by used within the REON.cc decision support framework for drainage network state triggered early warning rather simply based on immediate upstream or downstream conditions. RTHS deployments in tidally influenced locations or locations that experience flow reversals will be equipped with Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers (ADCP) to provide both velocity and total discharge. including ADCP capacity to an RTHS adds $30,000 in the first year, and $2,500 in annual operations cost thereafter. Annual operating costs for each RTHS will range from $10,000 to $12,500 (with ADCP) beyond the 3-year project period. It is fully anticipated that local jurisdictions will be able to “adopt” an RTHS and absorb
these costs to sustain the network.

Real Time Hydrologic Stations (RTHS) will be installed to locally validate the models developed in Task 1.2 that will rapidly provide the LRGVDC with the framework to support flood mitigation and planning, along with specific applications to impacted localities for capital improvement project design development. Approximately 44 RTHS deployments are anticipated across the LRGV, with approximately 1/3 being deployed to characterize catchment hydraulics (identified in Task 2.1) along with flood early warning. REON network sustainability is promoted by recruiting jurisdictions local to each installation to absorb the stations annual maintenance costs beyond the project performance period. There are currently 3 RTHS locations active in the LRGV in the vicinity of Brownsville. These installations were funded in part by Cameron County in support of a TCEQ-funded Watershed Protection Planning project. A 4th station has been contracted for by the City of Mercedes and will be brought online as soon as field team deployments are feasible under COVID-19 restrictions. TWDB has also committed to funding the deployment of an additional 4 locations to support instream flows (water quality) assessment into the Laguna Madre. 5 of the RTHS stations will be positioned at the mouths of each of the 5 channelized regional drainage pathways with ADCPs to characterize tidal flux, and a further 7 will be deployed inland on major laterals (such as the Mission Lateral) where flow reversal has been observed.

