(LRGVDC Contract No. 2021-01)

   **AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
   AND Research, Applied Technology, Education and Service, Inc.
   (RATES).**

This Agreement is by and between the Lower Rio Grande Valley Development
Council, 301 W. Railroad St., Weslaco, Texas. 78596 (hereafter referred
to as “LRGVDC”) and **Research, Applied Technology, Education and
Service, Inc. (“RATES”)**, P.O. Box 697 Edinburg, TX 78540 Texas 78539,
hereafter referred to as (“Subrecipient”). The term “Contract Documents”
in this document is defined as this Agreement and the exhibits that
follow, Exhibits A, B, C, D and E.

**RECITALS**

**WHEREAS,** the LRGVDC desires to engage the Subrecipient to perform
certain functions on behalf of the LRGVDC under the TWDB Contract No.
40038 and receive payment from funds Texas Water Development Board
(“TWDB”) has funded to the LRGVDC for TWDB Contract No. 40038 for the
subcontracted work performed by Subrecipient and certain services in
connection therewith; and,

**WHEREAS,** Subrecipient represents that it has the knowledge, ability,
equipment, and personnel to properly provide the services and scope of
work needed by the LRGVDC;

**WHEREAS**, Subrecipient understands that this Agreement is in effect
contingent on approval by TWDB. If this Agreement isn’t approved or
deemed ineligible for any reason by TWDB, cancellation of this Agreement
will occur, and any work completed by the subrecipient prior to the
approval of this Agreement by TWDB will be at subrecipient’s expense.

**NOW, THEREFORE,** the LRGVDC and Subrecipient do mutually agree as
follows:

**SECTION I**

**EMPLOYMENT OF SUBRECIPIENT**

LRGVDC agrees to employ Subrecipient to provide certain services on
behalf of the LRGVDC under TWDB Contract No. 40038 as stated in Exhibit
A in this Agreement. Additionally, t\ **he following are incorporated
into the Agreement as if set out verbatim.**

-  The **project requirements and related documents and Addenda
   contained in** the MOA with LRGVDC and RATES **and the exhibits in
   this Agreement.**

Upon receipt of such satisfactory services and subject to sufficient
TWDB funding, LRGVDC agrees to pay Subrecipient as stated in the
sections to follow.

**SECTION II**

**SUBRECIPIENT SERVICES**

The Subrecipient agrees to perform the work in connection therewith,
under the terms of this Subrecipient Agreement for all activities
described herein at its own proper cost and expense to furnish all the
labor, insurance and other accessories and services necessary to
complete the said tasks in accordance with the conditions and prices
stated in this Agreement, any addenda, and **including all documents
submitted to the TWDB in response to any documents related to funding
provided by TWDB for this Agreement which includes the scope of work,
and associated tasks.**

**SECTION III**

**QUALIFYING CONDITIONS**

a. The Subrecipient recognizes and agrees that failure to deliver the
   service in accordance with the delivery schedule detailed in Exhibit
   C to this Agreement will result in expense and damage to the
   Subrecipient. The Subrecipient shall inform the LRGVDC immediately of
   any anticipated delays in the delivery schedule and of any remedial
   actions being taken to ensure completion of the service according to
   such schedule. If the agreed completion date is missed and remedial
   actions are not taken by the Subrecipient, the LRGVDC may, in its
   sole discretion, declare such delay a material breach of this
   Agreement and pursue all of its legal and equitable remedies. The
   LRGVDC may not declare a breach, and the Subrecipient cannot be held
   in breach of this Agreement, of this section if such delay is caused
   by an action or failure of action of the LRGVDC. In such case, the
   Subrecipient will provide the LRGVDC with written notice of the delay
   and work until the reason for the delay has been resolved by the
   LRGVDC and written notice of that resolution has been provided to the
   Subrecipient.

b. The Subrecipient is under no obligation or restriction that would in
   any way interfere or conflict with the work to be performed by the
   Subrecipient under this Agreement. The LRGVDC understands that the
   Subrecipient may currently be working on one or more similar projects
   for other customers. Provided that those projects do not interfere or
   conflict with the Subrecipient’s obligations under this Agreement,
   those projects shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement by
   the Subrecipient.

c. Except as expressly agreed otherwise in writing by the LRGVDC, the
   Subrecipient shall bear all of its own expenses arising from its
   performance of its obligations under this Agreement. The LRGVDC shall
   have no obligation to provide office space, work facilities,
   equipment, clerical services, programming services, or the like.

d. **Subrecipient is responsible for initiating, maintaining, and
   supervising all safety precautions and programs in connection with
   the work. The safety program shall comply with all applicable
   requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.**

**SECTION IV**

**SUBRECIPIENT’S SPECIAL WARRANTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES**

**Subrecipient agrees and acknowledges that the LRGVDC is entering into
this Agreement in reliance on Subrecipient's represented expertise and
ability to provide services. Subrecipient agrees to use its best
efforts, skill, judgment, and abilities to perform its obligations and
to further the interests of the LRGVDC in accordance with LRGVDC’s
requirements and procedures.**

**Subrecipient represents and agrees that it will perform its services
in accordance with the usual and customary standards of Subrecipient’s
profession or business and in compliance with all applicable national,
federal, state, and municipal, laws, regulations, codes, ordinances,
orders and with those of any other body having jurisdiction over the
project. Subrecipient agrees to bear the full cost of correcting
Subrecipient’s negligent or improper work and services, and any to the
extent harm caused by the negligent or improper work or services. LRGVDC
shall bear the full cost of correcting issues created by LRGVDC’s or any
other party’s negligent or improper work and services.**

**Subrecipient's duties shall not be diminished by any approval by
LRGVDC nor shall the Subrecipient be released from any liability by any
approval by LRGVDC, it being understood that the LRGVDC is ultimately
relying upon the Subrecipient’s skill and knowledge in performing the
services required by this Agreement.**

**Subrecipient represents and agrees that all persons connected with the
Subrecipient directly in charge of its services are duly registered
and/or licensed under the laws, rules and regulations of any authority
having jurisdiction over the Project if registration is required.**

**Subrecipient represents and agrees to advise LRGVDC of anything of any
nature in any drawings, specifications, plans, sketches, instructions,
information, requirements, procedures, and other data supplied to the
Subrecipient (by the LRGVDC or any other party) that is, in its opinion,
unsuitable, improper, or inaccurate for the purposes for which the
document or data is furnished.**

**The Subrecipient represents and agrees to perform its services under
this Agreement in a prompt and economical manner consistent with good
business practices and the interests of LRGVDC.**

**Subrecipient represents and agrees that the individual executing this
Agreement on behalf of Subrecipient has been duly authorized to act for
and to bind Subrecipient to its terms.**

**Subrecipient shall designate a representative authorized to act on
Subrecipient’s behalf with respect to the project.**

**Except for the obligation of the LRGVDC to pay Subrecipient certain
fees, costs, and expenses pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the
LRGVDC shall have no liability to Subrecipient or to anyone claiming
through or under Subrecipient by reason of the execution or performance
of this Agreement, except to the extent due to negligence or willful
misconduct of LRGVC. Notwithstanding any obligation or liability of the
LRGVDC to Subrecipient, no present or future partner or affiliate of the
LRGVDC or any agent, officer, director, employee, or the components
comprising the LRGVDC, or anyone claiming under the LRGVDC has or shall
have any personal liability to Subrecipient or to anyone claiming
through or under Subrecipient by reason of the execution or performance
of this Agreement.**

**Subrecipient agrees and acknowledges that it is subject to all
applicable requirements of the master contract between the Lower Rio
Grande Valley Development Council and the Texas Water Development Board.
Subrecipient adopts by reference the requirements of Article VII of the
TWDB Contract for this Subrecipient Agreement.**

**Each Subcontract the Subrecipient would enter into to perform required
work under this Subrecipient Agreement must contain the following:**

**A. A detailed budget estimate with specific cost details for each task
or specific item of work to be performed by the Subcontractor and for
each category of reimbursable expenses.**

**B. A clause stating the following: “Subcontractor agrees and
acknowledges that it is subject to all applicable requirements of the
master contract between (Contractor Name) and the Texas Water
Development Board. Subcontractor adopts by reference the requirements of
Article VII of the TWDB Contract for this Subcontract.”**

**Additionally,**

1. **the Subrecipient is subject to audit by the Texas State Auditor’s
   Office, and Subrecipient must cooperate with any request for
   information from the Texas State Auditor, as further described in
   Section VII, Paragraph K;**

2. **payments under the Subcontract are contingent upon appropriation of
   funds by the Texas Legislature, as further described in Section VII,
   Paragraph C;**

3. **ownership of data, materials and work papers, in any media, that is
   gathered, compiled, adapted for use, or generated by Subrecipient
   will become data, materials and work owned by TWDB and Subrecipient
   will have no proprietary rights in such data, materials and work
   papers, except as further described in Section XXVI, Ownership.**

4. **Subrecipient must keep timely and accurate books and records of
   accounts according to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;**

5. **Subrecipient is solely responsible for securing all required
   licenses and permits from local, state and federal governmental
   entities and solely responsible for obtaining sufficient insurance in
   accordance with the general standards and practices of the industry
   or governmental entity; and**

6. **Subrecipient is an independent contractor and LRGVDC nor TWDB have
   no liability resulting from any failure of Subrecipient that results
   in breach of contract, property damage, personal injury or death.**

**SECTION V**

**INDEMNITY AND HOLD HARMLESS**

**Each party covenants and agrees to FULLY INDEMNIFY and HOLD HARMLESS,
the TWDB, the other party and the elected and appointed officials,
employees, officers, directors, volunteers, and representatives of the
other party individually or collectively, from and against any and all
third-party costs, claims, liens, damages, losses, reasonable expenses,
fees, fines, penalties, proceedings, actions, demands, causes of action,
liability and suits of any kind and nature, including but not limited
to, personal or bodily injury, death or property damage, made upon the
other party directly to the extent arising out of, resulting from or
related to the other party’s** **negligent or willful activities under
this Subrecipient Agreement, including any negligent or willful acts or
omissions of the other party, or any agent, officer, director,
representative, employee, and their respective officers, agents,
employees, directors and representatives while performing under this
Subrecipient Agreement. The indemnity provided for in this paragraph
does not apply to any liability resulting from the negligence of the
other party, its officers or employees, separate Subrecipients or
assigned Subrecipients, in instances where such negligence causes
personal injury, death or property damage. IN THE EVENT SUBRECIPIENT AND
THE LRGVDC ARE FOUND JOINTLY LIABLE BY A COURT OF COMPETENT
JURISDICTION, LIABILITY WILL BE APPORTIONED COMPARATIVELY IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, WITHOUT WAIVING ANY GOVERNMENTAL
IMMUNITY AVAILABLE TO THE STATE UNDER TEXAS LAW AND WITHOUT WAIVING ANY
DEFENSES OF THE PARTIES UNDER TEXAS LAW.**

**The provisions of this indemnification are solely for the benefit of
the parties hereto and not intended to create or grant any rights,
contractual or otherwise, to any other person or entity. Each party
shall promptly advise the other party in writing of any claim or demand
against the other party which involves actions related to or arising out
of either party’s activities under this Subrecipient Agreement.**

**These indemnity provisions shall survive the termination of this
Subrecipient Agreement regardless of the reason for termination.**

**SECTION VI**

**TIME OF PERFORMANCE**

The Subrecipient agrees to begin providing services within ten (10) days
after the Notice to Proceed, as set forth in this contract and as
specified by the LRGVDC. Work will continue until the work is declared
technically complete by LRGVDC Staff and shall be completed upon request
of the LRGVDC and within the period of set forth in Exhibit A.
Subrecipient and LRGVDC shall not be liable for any delay due to
circumstance beyond their control. This contract may be extended upon
mutual Agreement by the LRGVDC and the Subrecipient at the end of
initial Agreement on an annual basis. This Agreement does not in any way
ensure renewal of contracted services. Either party to this Agreement
shall have the right to terminate this contract at any time, and for any
reason, after 30 days’ written notice and any payment requested shall be
made on work completed and / or goods delivered and as provided for in
the contract.

**SECTION VII**

   **GENERAL CONDITIONS**

A. **Disaster Recovery Plan. Upon request of TWDB or LRGVDC,
      Subrecipient must provide descriptions or copies of its business
      continuity and disaster recovery plans.**

B. **Dispute Resolution. The dispute resolution process provided for in
      Texas Government Code Chapter 2260 must be used to attempt to
      resolve any dispute arising under this Agreement.**

C. **Excess Obligations Prohibited/No Debt Against the State. This
      Agreement is subject to termination or cancellation without
      penalty to LRGVDC, either in whole or in part, subject to the
      availability of state funds.**

D. **False Statements. If subrecipient signs its application with a
      false statement or it is subsequently determined that subrecipient
      has violated any of the representations, guarantees, warranties,
      certifications or affirmations included in its application,
      subrecipient will be in default under the Agreement and LRGVDC may
      terminate or void the Agreement.**

E. **Force Majeure. Neither subrecipient nor LRGVDC will be liable to
      the other for any delay in or failure of performance of any
      requirement contained in this Agreement caused by force majeure.
      The existence of such causes of delay or failure will extend the
      period of performance until after the causes of delay or failure
      have been removed, provided the non-performing party exercises all
      reasonable due diligence to perform. Force majeure is defined as
      acts of God, war, fires, explosions, hurricanes, floods, failure
      of transportation or other causes that are beyond the reasonable
      control of either party and that by exercise of due foresight such
      party could not reasonably have been expected to avoid, and which,
      by the exercise of all reasonable due diligence, such party is
      unable to overcome.**

F. **Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement is governed by and
      construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas,
      without regard to the conflicts of law provisions. The venue of
      any suit arising under this Agreement is fixed in any court of
      competent jurisdiction in Hidalgo County, Texas, unless the
      specific venue is otherwise identified in a statute which directly
      names or otherwise identifies its applicability to TWDB.**

G. **Applicable Laws. In consideration of the performance of the mutual
      Agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Subrecipient, by and
      through its designated and authorized representatives agrees to
      implement the PROJECT in compliance with all state and federal
      laws and regulations that may be applicable; Texas Water Code,
      Chapter 15, Subchapters F and I; 31 Texas Administrative Code
      Chapter 355; and TWDB Guidance.**

H. **Remedies. TWDB has all remedies available in law or equity,
      including remedies available under Texas Water Code §§ 6.114 and
      6.115.**

I. **Public Information Act. Subrecipient understands that the LRGVDC
      will comply with the Texas Public Information Act, Texas
      Government Code Chapter 552, as interpreted by judicial rulings
      and opinions of the Attorney General of the State of Texas.
      Information, documentation and other material in connection with
      this Agreement may be subject to public disclosure pursuant to the
      Texas Public Information Act. In accordance with Texas Government
      Code § 2252.907, Subrecipient is required to make any information
      created or exchanged with the State pursuant to this Agreement,
      and not otherwise excepted from disclosure under the Texas Public
      Information Act, available in a format that is accessible by the
      public at no additional charge to the State.**

J. **State Auditor’s Right to Audit. The state auditor may conduct an
      audit or investigation of any entity receiving funds from the
      state directly under the Agreement or indirectly through a
      subcontract under the Agreement. The acceptance of funds directly
      under the Agreement or indirectly through a subcontract under the
      Agreement acts as acceptance of the authority of the state
      auditor, under the direction of the legislative audit committee,
      to conduct an audit or investigation in connection with those
      funds. Under the direction of the legislative audit committee, an
      entity that is the subject of an audit or investigation by the
      state auditor must provide the state auditor with access to any
      information the state auditor considers relevant to the
      investigation or audit.**

K. **National Flood Insurance Program. The appropriate entities within
      the PROJECT AREA must currently enforce and continue to enforce
      floodplain management standards at least equivalent to National
      Flood Insurance Program minimum standards and may exceed the
      National Flood Insurance Program minimum standards.**

..

   **2. STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE**

A. **Personnel. Subrecipient must assign only qualified personnel to
      perform the services required under this Agreement. Subrecipient
      is responsible for ensuring that any subcontractor utilized also
      assigns only qualified personnel. Qualified personnel are persons
      who are properly licensed to perform the work and who have
      sufficient knowledge, skill and ability to perform the tasks and
      services required herein according to the standards of performance
      and care for their trade or profession.**

B. **Professional Standards. Subrecipient must provide the services and
      deliverables in accordance with applicable professional standards.
      Subrecipient represents and warrants that it is authorized to
      acquire subcontractors and Subrecipients with the requisite
      qualifications, experience, personnel and other resources to
      perform in the manner required by this Agreement.**

C. **Procurement Laws. Subrecipient** **must engage in competitive
      procurements for subcontract work on the Project. All purchases
      for goods, services, or commodities made with funds provided under
      this Agreement must comply with State and local procurement and
      contracting laws.**

D. **Proprietary and Confidential Information. Subrecipient warrants and
      represents that any information that is proprietary or
      confidential and is received by subrecipient from TWDB, LRGVDC, or
      any governmental entity will not be disclosed to third parties
      without the written consent of TWDB or applicable governmental
      entity, whose consent will not be unreasonably withheld.**

E. **Contract Administration. LRGVDC will designate a project manager
      for this Agreement. The project manager will serve as the point of
      contact between TWDB and subrecipient. LRGVDC’s project manager
      will supervise review of subrecipient’s technical work,
      deliverables, draft reports, the FINAL REPORT, payment requests,
      schedules, financial and budget administration, and similar
      matters. The project manager does not have any express or implied
      authority to vary the terms of the AGREEMENT, amend the AGREEMENT
      in any way or waive strict performance of the terms or conditions
      of the AGREEMENT.**

F. **Nepotism. Subrecipient must comply with Texas Government Code
      Chapter 573 by ensuring that no officer, employee or member of
      LRGVDC’s governing body votes or confirm the employment of any
      person related within the second degree of affinity or the third
      degree of consanguinity to any member of the governing body or to
      any other officer or employee authorized to employ or supervise
      such person. This prohibition does not prohibit the employment of
      a person who has been continuously employed for a period of two
      years prior to the election or appointment of the officer,
      employee or governing body member related to such person in the
      prohibited degree.
      **

G. **Open Meetings. Subrecipient must comply with Texas Government Code
      Chapter 551, which requires all regular, special or called
      meetings of governmental bodies to be open to the public, except
      as otherwise provided by law, when applicable to the project.**

..

   **3. AFFIRMATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS**

A. **Antitrust Affirmation. Subrecipient represents and warrants that,
      in accordance with Texas Government Code § 2155.005, neither
      subrecipient nor any firm, corporation, partnership, or
      institution represented by subrecipient, or anyone acting for such
      a firm, corporation, partnership, or institution has (1) violated
      any provision of the Texas Free Enterprise and Antitrust Act of
      1983, Chapter 15 of the Texas Business & Commerce Code, or the
      federal antitrust laws; or (2) communicated directly or indirectly
      the contents of the proposal resulting in this AGREEMENT to any
      competitor or any other person engaged in the same line of
      business as subrecipient.**

B. **Child Support Obligation Affirmation. Under Texas Family Code §
      231.006, Subrecipient certifies that the individual or business
      entity named in this Agreement is not ineligible to receive the
      specified grant, loan or payment, and acknowledges that this
      Agreement may be terminated and payment may be withheld if this
      certification is inaccurate.**

C. **Dealings With Public Servants. Pursuant to Texas Government Code
      § 2155.003, Subrecipient represents and warrants that it has not
      given, offered to give, nor intends to give at any time hereafter
      any economic opportunity, future employment, gift, loan, gratuity,
      special discount, trip, favor, or service to a public servant in
      connection with the goods or services being supplied.**

D. **E-Verify Program. Subrecipient certifies that for contracts for
      services, subrecipient will utilize the U.S. Department of
      Homeland Security’s E-Verify system during the term of the
      Agreement to determine the eligibility of: (1) all persons
      employed by subrecipient to perform duties within Texas; and (2)
      all persons, including Subcontractors, assigned by subrecipient to
      perform work pursuant to the Agreement within the United States of
      America.**

E. **Entities that Boycott Israel. Pursuant to Texas Government Code
      § 2270.002, Subrecipient certifies that either (1) it meets one of
      the exemption criteria under § 2270.002; or (2) it does not
      boycott Israel and will not boycott Israel during the term of the
      Agreement resulting from this solicitation. Subrecipient must
      state any facts that make it exempt from the boycott
      certification.**

F. **Excluded Parties. Subrecipient certifies that it is not listed on
      the federal government’s terrorism watch list as described in
      Executive Order 13224.**

G. **Financial Participation Prohibited. Pursuant to Texas Government
      Code § 2155.004(a), Subrecipient certifies that neither
      subrecipient nor any person or entity represented by Subrecipient
      has received compensation from TWDB or any agency of the State of
      Texas for participation in the preparation of the specifications
      or solicitation on which this Agreement is based. Under Texas
      Government Code § 2155.004(b), Subrecipient certifies that the
      individual or business entity named in this Agreement is not
      ineligible to receive the specified Agreement and acknowledges
      that this Agreement may be terminated and payment withheld if this
      certification is inaccurate.**

H. **Foreign Terrorist Organizations. Subrecipient represents and
      warrants that it is not engaged in business with Iran, Sudan, or a
      foreign terrorist organization, as prohibited by Texas Government
      Code § 2252.152.**

I. **Human Trafficking Prohibition. Under Texas Government Code
      § 2155.0061, Subrecipient certifies that the subrecipient is not
      ineligible to receive the specified Agreement and acknowledges
      that this Agreement may be terminated and payment withheld if this
      certification is inaccurate.**

J. **Lobbying Prohibition. Subrecipient represents and warrants that
      LRGVDC’s payments to subrecipient and subrecipient’s receipt of
      appropriated or other funds under the Agreement are not prohibited
      by Texas Government Code §§ 556.005 or 556.0055, related to the
      prohibition on payment of state funds to a lobbyist or for
      lobbying activities.**

K. **No Conflict of Interest. Subrecipient represents and warrants that
      the provision of goods and services or other performance under
      this Agreement will not constitute an actual or potential conflict
      of interest or reasonably create an appearance of impropriety.
      Subrecipient also represents and warrants that, during the term of
      this Agreement, subrecipient will immediately notify LRGVDC, in
      writing, of any existing or potential conflict of interest
      relative to the performance of the Agreement.**

L. **Prior Disaster Relief Declaration. LRGVDC will follow Texas
      Government Code §§ 2155.006 and 2261.053 prohibit state agencies
      from accepting a response or awarding a contract that includes
      proposed financial participation by a person who, in the past five
      years, has been convicted of violating a federal law or assessed a
      penalty in connection with a contract involving relief for
      Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Katrina, or any other disaster, as
      defined by Texas Government Code § 418.004, occurring after
      September 24, 2005. Under Texas Government Code §§ 2155.006 and
      2261.053, subrecipient certifies that the individual or business
      entity named in this AGREEMENT is not ineligible to receive the
      specified AGREEMENT and acknowledges that this AGREEMENT may be
      terminated and payment withheld if this certification is
      inaccurate.**

M. **Suspension and Debarment. Subrecipient certifies that it and its
      principals are not suspended or debarred from doing business with
      the state or federal government as listed on the State of Texas
      Debarred Vendor List maintained by the Texas Comptroller of Public
      Accounts and the System for Award Management (SAM) maintained by
      the General Services Administration.**

N. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. This Subrecipient
      Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Texas. The Subrecipient acknowledges that
      by entering into this Agreement, and providing services under this
      Agreement, the Subrecipient has transacted business in the State
      of Texas. By transacting business in the State of Texas by
      Agreement, the Subrecipient voluntarily submits and consents to,
      and waives any defense to the jurisdiction of courts located in
      Hidalgo County, State of Texas, as to all matters relating to or
      arising from this Agreement.

O. Waiver. No waiver by either party of any default shall be deemed as a
      waiver of prior or subsequent default of the same or other
      provisions of this Agreement.

P. Integration. This Subrecipient Agreement constitutes the entire
      understanding of the parties, and revokes and supersedes all prior
      Agreements between the parties and is intended as a final
      expression of their Subrecipient Agreement. All schedules
      referenced in this Subrecipient Agreement shall be incorporated
      into this Subrecipient Agreement by this reference. This
      Subrecipient Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in
      writing signed by the parties hereto and specifically referring to
      this Subrecipient Agreement. This Subrecipient Agreement shall
      take precedence over any other documents which may conflict with
      this Subrecipient Agreement.

**SECTION VIII**

**STANDARD OF PERFORMANCE**

Subrecipient warrants to LRGVDC that all labor furnished to perform the
work under the Contract Documents will be competent to perform the tasks
undertaken, that the product of such labor will yield only professional
quality results, that materials and /or equipment furnished will be of
good quality and new unless otherwise permitted by the Contract
Documents, and that the work will be of good quality, free from faults
and defects, and in strict conformance with Exhibit B. Any work not
strictly conforming to these requirements may be considered defective.

**SECTION IX**

**TERMS OF PAYMENT**

LRGVDC agrees to pay Subrecipient for services herein, as stated in the
Exhibits, and in contracted for as follows:

A. Payment for basic services shall be upon reimbursement from TWDB to
LRGVDC for invoices submitted. Invoice shall be submitted to LRGVDC upon
completion of tasks in accordance with the Contract Documents in unit
price amounts set forth in the Exhibits. All invoices must include
source documentation acceptable to TWDB for each task. Any part of
invoice deemed ineligible will be deemed non-reimbursable and the
responsibility of the subrecipient. The total compensation to the
Subrecipient in the Amount of $5,500,000. Project Completion date shall
be December 31, 2024.

B. Invoice shall be completed and processed in accordance with Exhibit
C. Subrecipient shall submit Applications for Payment in accordance with
Exhibit C. Request for Payment will be processed by the LRGVDC finance
department. LRGVDC has 30 days from receipt of reimbursement from TWDB
to provide payment.

C. LRGVDC shall authorize all payments made for services rendered.
Payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from receipt of invoice
subject to sufficient reimbursement by the TWDB. In the event the LRGVDC
does not submit invoices or payment requests to the TWDB in a timely
manner or not in accordance with the TWDB contract and LRGVDC’s actions
are the sole cause of nonpayment by the TWDB, LRGVDC is responsible for
payment to Subrecipient for that invoice within thirty days (30) from
the original payment due date.

D. If changes in plans or specifications are necessary after the
performance of the Agreement is begun or if it is necessary to decrease
or increase the quantity of work to be performed or of materials,
equipment, or supplies to be furnished, the LRGVDC must approve change
orders before making the changes in accordance with LRGVDC policy and
applicable sections of the Texas Local Government Code and Texas
Government Code.

E. The total contract price may not be increased because of the changes
unless additional money for increased costs is appropriated for that
purpose from available funds or is provided for by the authorization of
the issuance of time warrants.

F. Each disbursement of available funds shall reflect a retainage amount
of five percent (5%) until the project is considered complete. The
approval of the final request for disbursement of available funds and
all other sums held as retainage shall be released upon completion.

G. The TWDB does not reimburse “handling costs” (mark-ups) on any
expenses thus the LRGVDC will follow TWDB guidelines. Any eligible
travel expenses related to a subcontract may be reimbursed at the
current rate for State of Texas employees which can be found at:
https://fmx.cpa.state.tx.us/fmx/travel/textravel/trans/personal.php. The
LRGVDC will not reimburse any ineligible expenses.

**SECTION X**

**TIME OF COMPLETION**

LRGVDC and the Subrecipient recognize that time is of the essence of
this Agreement and that the LRGVDC may suffer financial loss if the
project is not completed within the time specified in Exhibit A, plus
any extensions thereof allowed in accordance with this Subrecipient
Agreement.

**SECTION XI**

**SCHEDULE REQUIREMENTS**

Whenever, in the opinion of LRGVDC, the work on the project falls behind
schedule, LRGVDC may request that the Subrecipient submit a proposed
schedule and cure as stated in Section III(a) of this Subrecipient
Agreement.

**SECTION XII**

**WRITTEN NOTICE OF ISSUE**

In the event that any issue arises relating to any of the provisions
contained in this Agreement, including, but not limited to potential
delays, change orders, time extensions, weather delays, etc.,
Subrecipient agrees to notify the LRGVDC, in writing, immediately,
relating to such issue and provide a proposed resolution. Failure to
give such notice shall constitute a waiver of any other remedies
available to Subrecipient hereunder.

**SECTION XIII**

**NO DAMAGE FOR DELAY**

In the event of any delay, not the fault of the Subrecipient, the
Subrecipient shall be entitled to an extension of time for completion
only and shall not be entitled to any additional payment on account of
such delay. Without limiting the foregoing, the Subrecipient shall not
be entitled to payment or compensation of any kind from the LRGVDC for
direct, indirect or impact damages, and/or consequential damages,
including but not limited to costs of acceleration arising because of
hindrance or from any cause or whatsoever, whether such hindrances or
delays be reasonable or unreasonable, foreseeable or unforeseeable, or
avoidable or unavoidable; provided, however, that this provision shall
not preclude recovery by the Subrecipient of damages for hindrances or
delays due solely to negligence, fraud or bad faith on part of the
LRGVDC or its agents.

**SECTION XIV**

**UNREASONABLE SITE INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS**

The Subrecipient acknowledges that it has taken steps necessary to
ascertain the nature and location of the work and that it has
investigated and satisfied itself as to the general and local conditions
which can affect the project and its costs.

**SECTION XV**

**DUTY TO COORDINATE AMONG SEPARATE PRIME SUBRECIPIENTS**

The LRGVDC reserves the right to engage separate subrecipients or
subcontractors to perform aspects of the project other than the work
under this Agreement (OR SEPARATE SUBRECIPIENTS OR SUBCONTRACTORS FOR
WORK IN THIS AGREEMENT DUE TO FAILURE OF SUBRECIPIENT TO PROVIDE
SERVICES DESCRIBED HEREIN). In such case, subrecipient shall coordinate
sequence and schedule its work together and in cooperation with such
other subrecipients or subcontractors. In the event of any difficulties
caused by any such other separate subrecipients or subcontractors, this
subrecipient shall look solely for relief to such other subrecipients or
subcontractors and shall not make claim against LRGVDC.

**SECTION XVI**

**ASSIGNMENT**

No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or interests in this
Subrecipient Agreement will be binding on another party hereto without
the written consent of the party sought to be bound; and specifically
but without limitation monies that may become due and monies that are
due may not be assigned without such consent (except to the extent that
the effect of this restriction may be limited by law), and unless
specifically stated to the contrary in any written consent to an
assignment, no assignment will release or discharge the assignor from
any duty or responsibility under this Subrecipient Agreement.

**SECTION XVII**

**NON-APPROPRIATIONS**

Notwithstanding anything in the contract documents to the contrary, any
and all payments which the LRGVDC is required to make under this
Agreement shall be subject to availability of funds from the TWDB, as
certified by the Director of Finance.

If sufficient funding from TWDB is not available, then either party has
the right to terminate the contract by providing (10) ten days written
notice to the other party.

Furthermore, execution of this Agreement does not automatically
guarantee a renewal of contract upon expiration.

**SECTION XVIII**

**MINIMUM LICENSE, PERMITS AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS**

In accordance with LRGVDC policy, and requirements of the work found in
this Subrecipient Agreement, Subrecipient will be required to hold the
appropriate insurance coverage for this project throughout the duration
of this Agreement. Evidence of the above insurance coverage shall be
required prior to final execution of the Agreement. The LRGVDC shall be
listed as an additional insured. Subrecipient warrants that it is
adequately insured and carries liability, workers compensation, and
automobile insurance for injury to its employees and others incurring
loss or injury as a result of the acts of Subrecipient or its employees.

Subrecipient shall not commence work under this Agreement until all
insurance requirements have been obtained and proof of such insurance
shall have been provided to the LRGVDC, nor shall Subrecipient allow any
Sub-Subrecipient to commence work until all insurance as noted above has
been so obtained and provided to the LRGVDC. Approval of the insurance
by LRGVDC shall not relieve or decrease the liability of the
Subrecipient.

For the purpose of this contract, the subrecipient will be considered an
independent entity and therefore solely responsible for liability
resulting from negligent acts or omissions. The Subrecipient shall
obtain all necessary insurance, to protect themselves, the LRGVDC, the
TWDB, and employees and officials of the TWDB from liability arising out
of this Subrecipient Agreement. The Subrecipient shall indemnify and
hold the TWDB and the State of Texas harmless, to the extent the
Subrecipient may do so in accordance with state law, from any and all
losses, damages, liability, or claims therefore, on account of personal
injury, death, or property damage of any nature whatsoever caused by the
subrecipient, arising out of the activities under this Subrecipient
Agreement.

The Subrecipient shall be solely and entirely responsible for procuring
all appropriate licenses and permits, which may be required by any
competent authority for the Subrecipient to perform the subject work.

**SECTION XIX**

**TERMINATION OF CONTRACT**

In addition to any other termination clause in this Subrecipient
Agreement, either party to this Agreement shall have the right to
terminate this Subrecipient Agreement at any time, and for any reason,
after 30 days' written notice and any payment requested shall be made on
work completed and/or goods delivered and as provided for in the
Subrecipient Agreement.

**SECTION XX**

**SEVERABILITY**

If any term or provision of this Subrecipient Agreement is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable,
the remainder of the provisions of this Subrecipient Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected,
impaired or invalidated.

**SECTION XXI**

**ALTERNATE DISPUTE RESOLUTION/NEUTRAL PARTY**

A. Any controversy, claim or dispute between the parties arising out of
or relating to the provisions of this Subrecipient Agreement or the
breach, termination or validity thereof shall, upon written request of
either party, immediately be referred jointly for resolution of the
controversy by non-binding mediation.

B. The mediation must be concluded within any period mutually agreed
upon by the parties but in no event no later than within forty-five (45)
days after written notice is given by either party of its intent to
proceed to mediation. Unless the parties expressly agree otherwise, each
party shall bear its own costs, legal and expert fees incurred in the
mediation, and evenly share the costs of the mediator. If, after
proceeding in good faith the parties, with the assistance of a neutral
mediator agreed upon by both parties, do not resolve the dispute within
the forty-five (45) day period, the parties may proceed in accordance
with paragraph (C) below.

C. After exhausting the procedures set forth above, either party may
initiate litigation to resolve the dispute. The Law of the State of
Texas shall control the matter in controversy. Venue is mandatory in
Hidalgo County, Texas.

**SECTION XXII**

**THE SUBRECIPIENT'S BREACH AND THE LRGVDC'S REMEDIES**

A. After written notice to the Subrecipient and a reasonable opportunity
to cure, failure of the Subrecipient to comply with any of the terms or
conditions of this Subrecipient Agreement shall be deemed a material
breach of this Subrecipient Agreement, and the LRGVDC shall have all the
rights and remedies provided in the contract documents, the right to
cancel, terminate, cure or cover the breach and/or suspend the contract
in whole or in part, the right to maintain any and all actions at law or
in equity or other proceedings with respect to a breach of the
Subrecipient Agreement including damages and specific performance, and
the right to select one or more of the remedies available to it.

B. Attorney Fees: In the event that any dispute arises concerning this
contract or in the event of any claim, suit, action, proceeding, either
judicial or administrative in nature, as a result of the default, delay,
breach, wrongdoing, action or inaction of the Subrecipient, then the
Subrecipient shall be liable for, and shall pay for, all reasonable
costs, fees and expenses of the LRGVDC including expenses and fees for
hiring experts and for attorney's fees. The obligations created herein
arise regardless of whether an administrative proceeding, arbitration or
litigation is commenced and shall include consultation, advice or
counsel sought from any attorney or expert in connection with any such
default, delay, breach, wrongdoing, action or inaction of the
Subrecipient. If any action is brought by either party to this Agreement
against the other party regarding the subject matter of this Agreement,
the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover, in addition to any
other relief granted, reasonable attorney fees, costs, and expenses of
litigation.

**SECTION XXIII**

**NOTICE**

   All notices or other communications required under this Subrecipient
   Agreement may be affected either by personal delivery in writing or
   by Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested. Notice shall be deemed
   to have been given when delivered or mailed to the parties at their
   respective addresses as set for the below or when mailed to the last
   address provided in writing to the other party by the addressee.

   In the event that any issue arises including but not limited to any
   potential delays, change orders, time extensions, weather delays the
   Subrecipient agrees to notify the LRGVDC in writing with a proposed
   resolution.

   If to Subrecipient: RATES

   Attn: Dr. Andrew Ernest

   CEO

   PO Box 697

   Edinburg, TX 78540

   anernest@ratesresearch.org

   If to LRGVDC: LRGVDC

   Attn: Manuel Cruz

   Executive Director

   301 W. Railroad St.

   Weslaco, Texas 78596

   mcruz@lrgvdc.org

   With a copy to: LRGVDC

   Rick Carrera

Director – Community and Economic Development

301 W. Railroad St.

Weslaco, TX 78596

682-3481 ext. 163

rcarrera@lrgvdc.org

**SECTION XXIV**

**SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS**

LRGVDC and Subrecipient each bind themselves, their partners,
successors, executors, administrators, and assigns to the other party of
the Subrecipient Agreement in respect to all covenants of this
Agreement.

**SECTION XXV**

**OWNERSHIP**

The TWDB shall have unlimited rights to technical or other data
resulting directly from the performance of services under this
Agreement. It is agreed that all reports, drafts of reports, or other
material, data, drawings, computer programs and codes associated with
this Agreement and developed by the Subrecipient(s) or its contracted
parties pursuant to this Agreement shall become the joint property of
the LRGVDC and the TWDB. These materials shall not be copyrighted or
patented by the Subrecipient or by any consultants involved in this
Agreement unless the Executive Administrator approves in writing the
right to establish copyright or patent; provided, however, that
copyrighting or patenting by the Subrecipient or its sub-Subrecipient
will in no way limit the TWDB 's access to or right to request and
receive or distribute data and information obtained or developed
pursuant to this Subrecipient Agreement. Any material subject to a TWDB
copyright and produced by the Subrecipient or TWDB pursuant to this
Subrecipient Agreement may be printed by the LRGVDC or the TWDB at their
own cost and distributed by either at their discretion. The Subrecipient
may otherwise utilize such material provided under this Subrecipient
Agreement as it deems necessary and appropriate, including the right to
publish and distribute the materials or any parts thereof under its own
name, provided that any TWDB copyright is appropriately noted on the
printed materials.

The Subrecipient agrees to acknowledge the TWDB in any news releases or
other publications relating to the work performed under this
Subrecipient Agreement.

Subrecipient must include terms and conditions in all contracts or other
engagement Agreements with any subcontractors as are necessary to secure
these rights and protections and must require that subcontractors
include similar such terms and conditions in any contracts or other
engagements with their subcontractors.

To the extent allowed by law, subrecipient must make all reports, drafts
of reports, data, drawings, studies, analyses, models, notes, plans,
computer programs and codes, or other work products, whether final or
intermediate, available to the regional flood planning group appliable
to the PROJECT AREA within a reasonable time after a request from the
regional flood planning group.

**SECTION XXVI**

**NO DEBT AGAINST THE STATE OF TEXAS**

This Subrecipient Agreement shall not be construed as creating any debt
by or on behalf of the State of Texas, the TWDB, and all obligations of
the State of Texas and the LRGVDC are subject to the availability of
funds. To the extent the performance of this contract transcends the
time frame in which this contract is entered into, this contract is
specifically contingent upon the continued authority of the TWDB and
appropriations therefore.

**SECTION XXVII**

**LAWS AND GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS**

Each party shall be responsible for compliance with all laws and
governmental regulations affecting its businesses.

**SECTION XXVIII**

**RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES**

Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the parties or
any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent,
partnership or joint venture between the parties, it being understood
and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the
parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the parties
other than the relationship of buyer and seller of services nor be
deemed to vest any rights, interests or claims in any third parties. The
parties do not intend to waive any privileges or rights to which they
may be entitled.

**SECTION XXIX**

**RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS**

The Subrecipient will not, during the Term and for 12 months form
expiration of the Term (for whatever reason) offer (or procure or
facilitate the making of any such offer) employment to, enter into a
contract for the services of, or attempt to entice away from the LRGVDC
any individual who is at the date this Subrecipient Agreement is entered
into an employee of LRGVDC.

**SECTION XXX**

**AUTHORIZATION**

The parties signing this Agreement have all necessary power and
authority to act on behalf of their respective entities.

**SECTION XXXI**

**MODIFICATION**

This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in writing
signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.

**SECTION XXXII**

**OPPORTUNITY FOR REPRESENTATION; NO PRESUMPTION AGAINST DRAFTER**

Each party acknowledges that it has had an adequate opportunity to
obtain counsel and to participate in the drafting of this Subrecipient
Agreement. Accordingly, the parties agree that, if this Subrecipient
Agreement is interpreted or construed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, no presumption shall be applied against the drafter of
this Subrecipient Agreement.

**SECTION XXXIII**

**FINANCIAL RECORDS CLAUSE**

**The Subrecipient shall maintain satisfactory financial accounting
documents and records, including copies of invoices and receipts, and
shall make them available for examination and audit by the Executive
Administrator of the TWDB. Accounting by the Subrecipient shall be in a
manner consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.**

**IN WITNESS WHEREOF,** the Parties have executed this Agreement by
their authorized representatives as of the dates noted below.

**Executed on this \_______\_ day of \____________, 2021.**

By:________\_ \____________________\_

Manuel Cruz, LRGVDC, Executive Director

By: \_____________________________\_

Dr. Andrew Ernest, CEO of RATES [Subrecipient]

Attest: \___________________________\_

Crystal Balboa, LRGVDC Director of Finance

**EXHIBIT A**

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT SERVICE AREA

The proposed project service area will cover the South Laguna Madre
watershed defined by the 8 Digit Hydrologic Unit 12110208 that covers
most of the southern portion of Hidalgo County, all but the northernmost
portions of Willacy County, and the entirety of Cameron County. The
Lower Rio Grande Valley Development Council (LRGVDC), in partnership
with its constituent counties and local governments, will establish the
administrative and technical infrastructure necessary to promote the
implementation of holistic flood control, mitigation and drainage
enhancements on the 5 of the 6 primary drainage pathways within its
three county (Cameron, Hidalgo and Willacy) service area. These drains
include from North to South:

-  The Raymondville Drain as it travels eastwards from the north east
   corner of Willacy County entering the Laguna Madre 5 miles south of
   Port Mansfield, TX. This drainage pathway begins in La Sal Vieja
   (1211020804) and flows into the East Main Drain-Frontal Laguna Madre
   (1211020805). Hidalgo County Drainage District #1 is proposing to
   extend this drain east, to alleviate flood water loads into the
   Hidalgo Main Drain system.

-  The Hidalgo County Drainage District #1-North Main Drain (HCCDD1-NMD)
   as it flows from its origin in Hidalgo County, thence to Willacy
   County, joining with the Willacy County Drainage District #1-Willacy
   Main Drain (WCCDD1-WMD) and entering the Laguna Madre through the El
   Sauz Ranch private property. This drainage pathway drains the
   Edinburg North Main Canal (1211020802), La Sal Vieja (1211020804),
   crossing into the Upper Pilot Channel-Laguna Madre (1211020803) and
   flowing out into the Laguna Madre through the East Main Drain-Frontal
   Laguna Madre (1211020805).

-  The International Boundary Water Commission (IBWC) leveed North
   Floodway (Floodway) as it travels north from Llano Grande Lake south
   west of Weslaco, TX, turning east near La Villa, TX and washing out
   into the Laguna Madre through private property approximately 1 mile
   north west of Arroyo City. This is a wholly man-made waterway
   consisting of a pilot channel and flood plain bounded by levees
   designed to provide relief to the Arroyo Colorado near Mercedes, TX
   during flood conditions by moving flood waters north and east to the
   Laguna Madre. The Floodway is wholly encompassed in the Upper Pilot
   Channel-Laguna Madre (1211020803), which is also transected by the
   Hidalgo Drain.

-  The Arroyo Colorado River as it traverses Hidalgo, Cameron and
   Willacy Counties from the IBWC diversion structure at Llano Grande
   Lake through the City of Harlingen, becoming a dredged barge channel
   flowing into the Laguna Madre west of Arroyo City. This watershed is
   comprised of the Upper Arroyo Colorado (1211020801), the Middle
   Colorado (1211020806) and the Lower Arroyo Colorado (1211020807).
   This primary drainage pathway, the Arroyo Colorado is a regulated
   waterbody, operated and maintained by the International Boundary
   Water Commission (IBWC). The mouth of the Arroyo Colorado is a
   dredged barge channel that transects both the Upper Pilot
   Channel-Laguna Madre (1211020803) and the Laguna Atascosa
   (1211020808).

-  The Lower Laguna Madre and Brownsville Ship Channel watershed
   bordered to the northwest by the Arroyo Colorado watershed, to the
   south by the Rio Grande River and the east by the Lower Laguna Madre.
   This watershed is comprised of 2 HUC-10s, the Laguna Atascosa
   (1211020808) and the Brownsville Ship Channel (1211020809). This is a
   complex drainage basin dominated sheet flow in the north eastern
   portion of the Laguna Atascosa watershed and channelized flow in the
   remainder, flowing through a complex network of resacas into the
   Brownsville Ship Channel.

| The sixth drainage pathway, the Rio Grande River, is a highly
  regulated water body, whose use for drainage and flood control is
  strictly regimented by international treaty.
| B. A Map of Identified Watershed or Watersheds Showing Major
  Hydrologic Features

| and Political Subdivision Boundaries as Applicable
| The figure below depicts the overall LRGVDC HUC-8 (12110208), its
  component HUC-10s,

|image0|\ urban areas and drainage districts (hatched). This figure also
illustrates the inherent complexity of the LRGV hydrology. Man-made
drainage ditches and irrigation canals transect natural elevation-based
watersheds, rendering the USGS Hydrologic Unit classification
ineffective as a first step in characterizing hydrology in the LRGV.
Further, the layering of political jurisdictions, including counties,
municipalities, and irrigation and drainage districts create a complex
morass of management challenges.

|image1|\ The following figure depicts the local drainage network within
the LRGV overlaid on the 5 main drains within the constituent HUC-10s.
This figure demonstrates the need for layered basin characterization,
with regional drainage patterns through the major drainage patterns
being fed by more sub-regional drainage networks. The sub-regional
networks can be visualized in the figure as the HUC-10 polygons but will
most likely need to be manually delineated at the HUC-12 or HUC-14 scale
to incorporate the effects of drainage ditches transecting
elevation-based hydrologic boundaries. Localized hydraulics must be
characterized at an even smaller scale (subdivision or urban sector) in
order to be effectively used to drive design development exercises.

| The specific approach will be tiered as follows:
| Regional: HUC-8 (12110208) with aggregated HUC-10 sub-regions and Main
  Drains burned-in (see Question 9 for Map).

1. Sub-Regional: Re-delineated HUC-10s using 2018 LiDAR data and
   National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) local drainage network burned-in.

2. Urban: Selected urban drainage networks not included in other
   on-going or projected studies.

3. Project Specific: Specific high-value Drainage Characterization and
   Feasibility Assessments solicited from urban areas defined in Tier 3

**EXHIBIT B**

SCOPE OF WORK

The Lower Rio Grande Valley Development Council will conduct planning of
the entire South Laguna Madre HUC-8 (12110208) watershed to *“better
inform the development of strategies using structural and nonstructural
measures before a flood event, such as determining and describing
problems from or related to flooding, identifying and planning solutions
to flooding problems, and estimating the benefits and costs of these
solutions.”*

The long-term goal of this project is to develop the regional
knowledge-based decision support infrastructure to identify and promote
the implementation of local flood management physical and non-structural
controls that maximizes regional benefit. This goal will be achieved by
advancing two parallel inter-dependent objectives:

-  Objective 1: Regional Coordination & Technical infrastructure

-  Objective 2: Identification, Assessment & Prioritization of Regional
   Flood Control Projects

A. Project Organization

LRGVDC personnel will serve as project leads responsible for direct
oversight of contractors and will report directly to the TWDB. Project
construction documents. RATES will provide outside consulting functions
with respect to preparation of work proposed herein and with integration
of other regional TWDB category 1 proposal initiatives into the LRGVDC
Regional Flood Protection Planning Study, including abridged
applications:

-  13800 Raymondville. Raymondville Watershed Study (HUC-10s 1211020804
   & 1211020805)

-  13609 Cameron County Drainage District #3 (CCDD#3) Flood Protection
   Study (HUC-10s 1211020806, 1211020807, 1211020808, 1211020809)

-  13774 Willacy County. Willacy County Watershed Study (HUC-10s
   1211020803, 1211020804 & 1211020805)

-  13647 Brownsville. Flood Protection Study (HUC-10 1211020809)

-  13528 Harlingen. Flood Protection Planning Study (HUC-10s 1211020806,
   1211020807)

RATES will coordinate these efforts with the Lower Rio Grande Valley
Development Council Regional Water Resource Advisory Committee
(LRGV/RWRAC) to ensure maximum regional benefit. The LRGVDC will
contract with qualified consulting engineering service providers to
perform Project Specific Tasks related to Drainage Characterization and
Feasibility Assessments.

B. Description of how flood protection needs of the entire watershed
will be considered

|image2|\ See Objective 1: Regional Coordination & Technical
Infrastructure below

C. Identification of Tasks

Objective 1: Regional Coordination & Technical infrastructure

*
The LRGVDC will establish a regional coordination and decision-making
network,*

*charged with the assimilation of hydrologic and hydraulic knowledge to
support science-driven policy and decision making*

The end-point of this objective is to establish a continuous process by
which local jurisdiction may be able to work together, relying on a
shared, common hydrology operating picture to select solutions for local
flooding that can be mutually beneficial, cost-effective and
technologically efficient. Once established, and maintained, this
regional flood management decision support infrastructure will sustain
the adoption of regional flood management projects beyond the life of
this project. The knowledge base will continue to evolve to serve as a
regional feeder to the proposed Texas Disaster Information System.

*Task 1.1 Regional Coordination
*

The LRGVDC will identify, coordinate, and develop regional projects
encompassing the lengths of the Hidalgo/Willacy Drain and the Arroyo
Colorado river. The LRGVDC will convene a subcommittee of its Regional
Water Resources Advisory Committee (RWRAC) to serve as the focal point
for facilitating regionalization of local flood management projects.
Costs associated with this task include administrative and technical
staff, including the RWRAC Watershed Coordinator, as well as materials,
supplies, travel, and other expenses associated with administration of a
large project. Beyond the initial investment in developing the
knowledgebase, further detail, coverage, and updates will be sustained
by aligning future project engineering outcomes with the needs of the
knowledgebase.

*Task 1.2 Regional Hydrology & Hydraulics
*

Through the RWRAC, a comprehensive Hydrologic and Hydraulic (H&H) study,
greater in local detail and scope to Watershed Assessments conducted by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under Section 729 of the Water
Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 1986 as well as addressing two of
the three major phases of a FEMA flood study - i.e. assessing the flows
through a hydrologic study, and determining flood elevations and
floodway via a hydraulic analysis. A suite of geographically dispersed,
adaptive-resolution hydrologic and hydrodynamic models will be developed
in parallel to projects identified in Task 2.1 to support flood
mitigation planning. Approximately 40 hydrologic units will be
characterized and modeled, ranging in geographic scope from HUC8 to
HUC16, with hydraulic modeling to be conducted on a subset of each
sub-watershed, but constrained to a catchment scale defined by the
projects identified in Task 2.1 (Project Identification). Costs
associated with this task are primarily supplies, equipment and
time-and-effort expended on data collection, model development,
calibration and validation.

Task 1.2 is broken into 4 Activities:

-  Activity 1.2.1 Data Collection & Assimilation

-  Activity 1.2.2 Regional Modeling

-  Activity 1.2.3 Sub-Regional Modeling

-  Activity 1.2.4 Urban Modeling

Activity 1.2.1 Data Collection & Assimilation

This Activity, conducted over the 1st 18 months of the project, consists
of the following subtasks:

-  Historical Data Collection: Collection of hydrographic data from
   previous efforts conducted at the local, district, county or state
   level. Anticipated costs include approximately 12-person months of
   effort and associated equipment and supplies.

-  Ground Truthing and Field Data Collection: Determination of quality
   control parameters for all collected data to ensure conformance with
   FEMA standards. Anticipated costs include approximately 20-person
   months of effort and associated equipment and supplies.

-  Validation of all Collected Data: Validation of the collected data
   for use in modeling and drainage characterization effort for
   consistency and use applicability. Anticipated costs include
   approximately 12-person months of effort and associated equipment and
   supplies.

-  Assimilation of Collected Data: Assimilation of the collected data
   into the REON.cc cyberinfrastructure for direct access by end-users,
   analytics and modeling functions, including transformation into
   useful formats (e.g. LiDAR->Delineated Watersheds). Anticipated costs
   include approximately 6-person months of effort and associated
   equipment and supplies.

Hydrographic data will be collected from each of the counties,
municipalities, irrigation and

drainage districts to serve as the initial basis for field survey
validation and ground-truthing. LiDAR data exists for the entire LRGV
from a 2018 USGS flight. The figures below demonstrate the use of LiDAR
data in watershed delineation in the Lower Laguna Madres/Brownsville
Ship Channel areas to produce sub-watersheds on the order of HUC-12 or
HUC-14, sufficient for both hydrologic and hydraulic modeling. All data
and model scenarios will be house in an open-access cyberinfrastructure.
This work was executed under Clean Water Act Section 319 projects funded
through the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.

|image3|

|image4|

Activity 1.2.2 Regional Modeling

This Activity conducted over the 2nd 12 months of the project will
involve coarse-grid hydrologic modeling over the 4 Study Basins defined
previously (Hidalgo/Willacy North, IBWC Floodway, Arroyo Colorado, and
the Lower Laguna Madre/Brownsville Ship Channel). In addition to the
Study Basin scale watershed modeling, hydrodynamic modeling will be
conducted on each of the 5 major drainage pathways (Raymondville Drain.
Hidalgo/Willacy Drains, IBWC Floodway, Arroyo Colorado and the
Brownsville Ship Channel). These models incorporate the effects of tidal
fluxes at the mouths entering the Laguna Madre and will integrate
coastal circulation patterns both modeled and monitored in the Lower
Laguna Madre to identify the effects of storm surge. These models will
be developed with the intent of generating on-demand forecasts based on
meteorological predictions and integrated into the REON.cc
cybercollaboratory. Anticipated costs include approximately 18-person
months of effort and associated equipment and supplies.

Activity 1.2.3 Sub-Regional Modeling

This Activity, conducted over the 2nd 12 months of the project, will
build on the further redelineation of the LRGV into LiDAR and flow path
burn-in driven HUC-12 or HUC-14 subwatersheds as demonstrated above.
Modeling efforts will be conducted at the sub-region (I.e. re-delineated
HUC-10) scale and will focus on predicting hydrodynamic flows within
each sub watershed (HUC-12-14), validated against observed (RTHS) data.
Model datasets for each subregion will be compiled and served from the
REON.cc cyberinfrastructure for use by local jurisdictions and their
consultants. It is anticipated that the LRGV will result in the
delineation of between 6-10 sub-regions. Anticipated costs include
approximately 12-person months of effort and associated equipment and
supplies.

Activity 1.2.4 Urban Modeling

There are approximately 22 municipalities identified within the LRGVDC
service area (I.e.

excluding the urban areas to be served by the Raymondville, Brownsville,
Harlingen and

Cameron County Drainage District #3 Watershed Studies, but including
other urban areas in Willacy County). Stormwater models will be
developed for each municipality using wherever available, existing storm
drain network data (to be augmented in Activity 1.2.1). As with
subregional modeling, urban hydrodynamic model datasets will be house
and served from the REON.cc cyberinfrastructure for use by
municipalities and their consultants. Anticipated costs include
approximately 40-person months of effort and associated equipment and
supplies.

*Task 1.3 Real Time Hydrologic Stations
*

In parallel to the adaptive-resolution hydrologic and hydraulic
characterization of the watershed, a network of Real Time Hydrologic
Stations (RTHS) will be deployed across the LRGV as a catalyst for
inter-jurisdictional collaboration and holistic flood, water quality and
ecological management. RTHS deployments will be strategically located to
serve the following decision making needs:

-  Locations on the main drains and Resaca networks to characterize
   regional drainage patterns and to promote holistic decision making
   regarding regional flood-flow routing and siting of Regional
   Detention Facilities.

-  Local, off-mainstem locations to provide flood-front early warning
   for localities experiencing recurring flooding, and to validate
   catchment-scale hydraulic models used for design development of
   structural controls such as high-volume pumping and major diversion
   structure or culverts.

The combination of adaptive resolution forecasting and validation with
RTHS data will provide high confidence in early warnings. Further, as
has been used in other water management domains (drinking water
distribution and wastewater collection), deviations between model
forecasts and RTHS data can be used to identify impending structural
failures.

The RTHS deployments will be served by the River and Estuary Observation
Network (REON) Cyberinfrastructure (REON.cc) that has been in continuous
operation for 15 years, currently serving over 70 RTHS in providing real
time decision support hydrologic and water quality data to local,
regional and state decision makers.

RTHS sensors and base stations are designed, developed and deployed by
Research, Applied Technology, Education and Service, Inc. (RATES) with a
primary vision of “democratizing water intelligence” by making them
affordable to small organizations. This is accomplished by reducing the
component and life cycle of the incorporated technologies without
sacrificing reliability, accuracy and precision. Operational costs are
further reduced, and deployment sustainability is maximized by providing
deployment strategies via a membership subscription model. This affords
member entities turnkey solutions with nominal initial and ongoing
annual investments.

A basic RTHS unit, consisting of base station with cellular telemetry, a
full meteorological

sensor suite, and a stage height sensor with surveyed location and
elevation and discharge

rating curves developed annually is typically deployed within the LRGV
for a $15,000 initial

investment and $10,000 annual operations cost thereafter. Ensuring the
location and elevation of the RTHS is accurately surveyed enables water
level recording relative to a standard datum across the REON network and
for that data to by used within the REON.cc decision support framework
for drainage network state triggered early warning rather simply based
on immediate upstream or downstream conditions. RTHS deployments in
tidally influenced locations or locations that experience flow reversals
will be equipped with Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers (ADCP) to
provide both velocity and total discharge. including ADCP capacity to an
RTHS adds $30,000 in the first year, and $2,500 in annual operations
cost thereafter. Annual operating costs for each RTHS will range from
$10,000 to $12,500 (with ADCP) beyond the 3-year project period. It is
fully anticipated that local jurisdictions will be able to “adopt” an
RTHS and absorb

| these costs to sustain the network.
| Real Time Hydrologic Stations (RTHS) will be installed to locally
  validate the models developed in Task 1.2 that will rapidly provide
  the LRGVDC with the framework to support flood mitigation and
  planning, along with specific applications to impacted localities for
  capital improvement project design development. Approximately 44 RTHS
  deployments are anticipated across the LRGV, with approximately 1/3
  being deployed to characterize catchment hydraulics (identified in
  Task 2.1) along with flood early warning. REON network sustainability
  is promoted by recruiting jurisdictions local to each installation to
  absorb the stations annual maintenance costs beyond the project
  performance period. There are currently 3 RTHS locations active in the
  LRGV in the vicinity of Brownsville. These installations were funded
  in part by Cameron County in support of a TCEQ-funded Watershed
  Protection Planning project. A 4th station has been contracted for by
  the City of Mercedes and will be brought online as soon as field team
  deployments are feasible under COVID-19 restrictions. TWDB has also
  committed to funding the deployment of an additional 4 locations to
  support instream flows (water quality) assessment into the Laguna
  Madre. 5 of the RTHS stations will be positioned at the mouths of each
  of the 5 channelized regional drainage pathways with ADCPs to
  characterize tidal flux, and a further 7 will be deployed inland on
  major laterals (such as the Mission Lateral) where flow reversal has
  been observed.

This Task is broken over two activities:

-  Activity 1.3.1 Installation & Provisioning, Year 1. The basis for
   estimating these costs are provided above and include personnel time
   and effort and associated equipment and supplies.

-  Activity 1.3.2 Operation & Maintenance Years 2&3. The basis for
   estimating these costs are provided above and include personnel time
   and effort and associated equipment and supplies.

Objective 2: Identification, Assessment & Prioritization of Regional
Flood Control Projects

*The LRGVDC shall identify local and regional capital improvement
projects that support*

*regional flood management*

The local jurisdictions participating in this effort fall within the 5
primary drainage basins that transect the tri-county region: the
Raymondville Drain; the Hidalgo-Willacy Main Drain; the IBWC Floodway;
the Arroyo Colorado; and the Lower Laguna Madre/Brownsville Ship Channel
Drainage Basin. Several capital improvement projects on or adjacent to
these waterways are being submitted by the relevant local jurisdictions,
while others are in the conceptual development stage.

The proposed regional project would leverage local jurisdictional
representation and

engagement in the LRGVDC’s Regional Water Resource Advisory Committee
(RWRAC) to

facilitate the characterization of local drainage basins and
identification, feasibility assessment and development of Preliminary
Engineering Reports for both structural and non-structural flood
protection initiatives. The proposed improvements include adding storage
capacity via increasing main channel and lateral linear storage;
improvements to off-channel detention basins, including restoration of
Resacas; the integration of near real-time monitoring for flood early
warning, mitigation and planning; the adoption of an integrative
cyber-infrastructure to ingest, manage, maintain and grow the hydrologic
and hydrographic knowledgebase encompassing the entire Lower Rio Grande
Valley; and the establishment of an interjurisdictional operational
decision making and policy development institution for flood management.

| The endpoint for this objective is to engage local jurisdictions in
  the identification. selection and production of feasibility assessment
  and project design development documents that can be used to identify
  shared sources of funding for construction. These projects will, by
  the nature of the selection process, seek to fully utilize the
  region's main drains to address both regional drainage and localized
  flooding.
| *
  Task 2.1 Regional Flood Control Projects: Identification &
  Prioritization
  *

Specific local structural controls will be identified that will have
regional impact along with locally implemented non-structural controls
(e.g. drainage ordinances). For example, improvements proposed will be
directly applicable to mitigating the impact of increased HCCD1-NMD
flows that are anticipated following the completion of Hidalgo
County-2018 bond projects that include: channel and culvert
improvements; construction of off-line detention; construction of new
stormwater drainage systems; and construction of pumping stations.

Once partially developed during the first year of project performance,
the combination of RTHS data, H&H knowledge and models, and the REON.cc
cyberinfrastructure will form the basis of collaborative,
multi-jurisdictional discussions aimed at identifying and promoting for
further development, drainage improvement infrastructure that embody the
dual goals of maximizing regional drainage efficacy, while
simultaneously alleviating localized flooding. These projects have been
identified in partnership with over 25 local jurisdictions meeting the
following criteria:

-  Projects that would immediately alleviate local flooding

-  Projects that provide a benefit to regional drainage

-  A focus on projects that are not being submitted for funding from
   TWDB/FIF separately

-  Projects that have immediate endpoint of feasibility assessment or
   design development - not construction

The change that these projects have of the local hydrography, along with
their impact on local flooding and regional drainage will be used to
update and validate the H&H knowledgebase.

Activity 1.1.1 Watershed Coordinator:

To encourage regional thinking to tackle localized flooding, all
participating jurisdictions should share a common operating picture. The
recently established Regional Water Resources Advisory Committee (RWRAC)
serves as the integrative representative body for facilitation of
regional solutions for localized flooding. Administrative and technical
staff from the LRGVDC will work closely with the LRGV Watershed
Coordinator, a unique, jointly funded technical resource for all 3
counties and participating local jurisdiction to promote measured
regional, watershed scale solutions to address local hydrologic and
water quality issues.

The LRGV Watershed Coordinator was established via a multi-party,
inter-jurisdictional

Memorandum of Agreement with funding from Hidalgo, Cameron and Willacy
Counties,

Research, Applied Technology, Education and Service, Inc, and
administratively located at the LRGVDC. The jointly funded LRGV
Watershed Coordinator position provides the basis for developing
technical capacity in water resource management at the LRGVDC with the
primary purpose of promoting regional collaboration on projects that
maximize value for the LRGVDC constituent political jurisdictions.

The Watershed Coordinator is responsible for developing and maintaining
shared geodatabases serving up-to-date regional hydrography, along with
geo-located current and proposed local drainage improvements (both
structural and non-structural). This knowledge base will serve as the
platform for adaptive resolution hydrologic and hydrographic
characterization of the region that can be used to support Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) floodplain mapping. Adaptive
resolution characterization will allow the development of a regional
(HUC8) hydrologic hindcast and forecast model, with sub-basin scale
integration of HUC12 - HUC16 scale detailed hydrologic models. By
layering multi-scale hydrologic models, forecasts for early warning and
inundation mapping, and hindcasts for regional planning and
design-development can be produced on-demand. At a finer resolution,
i.e. catchment or subdivision, energy-based hydraulic models, that
require large data inputs and computational power, will similarly be
developed, and/or assimilated in cases where recent models exist, to
support specific local design development needs. This heuristic approach
will provide both real-time basin-scale hydrologic and on-demand
catchment-scale hydraulic forecasting for the public, regional partners
and decision makers. Anticipated costs include approximately 4-person
months of effort and associated equipment and supplies

*Task 2.2 Drainage System Characterization
*

For specific project areas identified in Task 2.1, in coordination with
the responsible municipality or appropriate special district, a detailed
drainage system characterization effort will be conducted. This will
include:

-  Updating existing drainage criteria to incorporate Atlas-14 changes
   to rainfall.

-  Mapping of the 100‐yr and 500‐yr floodplains for existing condition

-  Identify areas of structural and major roadway flooding due to
   riverine conditions and

-  propose solutions, including channel improvements, regional
   detention, channel bypass,

Approximately 25 project areas are anticipated to be identified, with
approximately 2.5-person months of effort and associated equipment and
supplies being expended on each. It is anticipated that these activities
will be executed though interlocal Agreements between

LRGVDC and the appropriately local entity.

*Task 2.3 Project Assessments
*

Feasibility assessments will be conducted on the projects identified in
Task 2.1, individually, and combined to develop an adaptive
flood-management strategy at the regional level. The assessments will
culminate in PER that include initial constructed cost estimates and
Cost-Benefit Analyses that evaluate alternatives, including a
no-implementation cost.

Activity 2.3.1 Project Assessments

Approximately 25 projects currently at the conceptual stage will be
identified for execution to the Feasibility or PER stage., with
approximately 2,5-person months of effort and associated equipment and
supplies being expended on each. It is anticipated that these activities
will be executed though interlocal Agreements between LRGVDC and the
appropriately local entity.

=================================================================================
==================== ================
**Exhibit C**                                                                                         
=================================================================================
==================== ================
   Table C.1 Estimated Task Budget                                                                    
   **Task**                                                                          **Activity Cost**    **Task Cost**
   Task 1.2 Regional Hydrology & Hydraulics                                                            $ 3,040,000.00
   Activity 1.2.1 Data Collection & Assimilation (Regional, Sub-Regional & Urban)    $ 1,290,000.00   
   Activity 1.2.2 Regional Modeling (4 Study Basins, 6 Drainage Pathways)            $ 450,000.00     
   Activity 1.2.3 Sub-Regional Modeling (6 HUC-10s)                                  $ 300,000.00     
   Activity 1.2.4 Urban Modeling (20 Municipalities)                                 $ 1,000,000.00   
   Task 1.3 Real Time Hydrologic Stations                                                              $ 1,960,000.00
   Activity 1.3.1 Installation & Provisioning, Year 1                                $ 840,000.00     
   Activity 1.3.2 Operation & Maintenance Years 2&3                                  $ 1,120,000.00   
   Task 1.4 REON.cc Cyberinfrastructure                                                                $ 400,000.00
   Activity 1.4.1 User Interface Enhancements                                        $ 100,000.00     
   Activity 1.4.2 Model Integration                                                  $ 150,000.00     
   Activity 1.4.3 Database Enhancements                                              $ 150,000.00     
   Task 2.1 Project Identification                                                                     $ 100,000.00
   Activity 2.1.1 Watershed Coordinator                                              $ 100,000.00     
   **Total**                                                                                           **$5,500,000**
=================================================================================
==================== ================

===================================== =====================
   Table C.2 Estimated Expense Budget
===================================== =====================
   **CATEGORY**                          **AMOUNT**
   Administration                        $ 550,000.00
   Permits                               $ 228,900.00
   Planning                              $ 2,947,000.00
   Project Management                    $ 1,100,000.00
   Surveying                             $ 674,100.00
   **Total**                             **$ 5,500,000.00**
===================================== =====================

===========================================================================
=================
   Table C.3 Estimated Deliverables Schedule                               
===========================================================================
=================
   **Deliverable & Month**                                                     **Amount**
   **2021**                                                                 **$2,318,500.00**
   **Qtr1**                                                                 **$42,500.00**
   Mar                                                                      $42,500.00
   Delineate watershed (GIS)                                                $10,000.00
REON.cc User interface Requirements Determination                           $12,500.00
   RTHS Data Model                                                          $10,000.00
   Validate watershed delineations (GIS)                                    $10,000.00
   **Qtr2**                                                                 **$362,500.00**
   Apr                                                                      $88,000.00
   Initial LRGV Flood Map Development (GIS)                                 $10,000.00
   Initial RTHS Site identification (GIS)                                   $15,000.00
   REON.cc User Interface Predevelopment Plan                               $12,500.00
   REON.cc User interface Requirements Validation                           $12,500.00
   RTHS Data Integration Upgrade                                            $30,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 1                                                  $8,000.00
   May                                                                      $25,000.00
   REON.cc User Interface Implementation                                    $25,000.00
   Jun                                                                      $249,500.00
   Cameron County Data Collection Workshop                                  $10,000.00
End User Data Dictionary Workshop Cameron County                            $6,000.00
   End User Data Dictionary Workshop Hidalgo County                         $6,000.00
   End User Data Dictionary Workshop Willacy County                         $6,000.00
   Field Survey Data Model                                                  $10,000.00
   Hidalgo County Data Collection Workshop                                  $10,000.00
   Hydraulic Asset Inventory Data Model                                     $20,000.00
   Hydrologic Model Code Deployment Report                                  $50,000.00
   Local Data Availability Assessment Report                                $15,000.00
   Reconnaissance- RTHS, assets, and additional transects                   $44,000.00
REON.cc User interface Quality Assurance Demonstration                      $12,500.00
   State & National Data Availability Assessment Report                     $15,000.00
   State & National Data Characterization Report                            $15,000.00
   State & National Data Demonstration Workshop                             $20,000.00
   Willacy County Data Collection Workshop                                  $10,000.00
   **Qtr3**                                                                 **$908,000.00**
   Jul                                                                      $372,000.00
   Develop LRGV Water Resources Field Survey Manual                         $40,000.00
   Horizontal RTHS Transect Extent                                          $22,000.00
   Hydraulic Asset Integration: Completion Report                           $30,000.00
   Hydrologic Data Assimilation Report                                      $50,000.00
   Local Data Characterization Report                                       $20,000.00
   Local Data Demonstration Workshop                                        $20,000.00
   REON.cc Deployment                                                       $12,500.00
   REON.cc User Interface End-User Acceptance Testing                       $12,500.00
   RTHS Install 1                                                           $15,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 2                                                  $10,000.00
   Site Access Instrument Submittal                                         $110,000.00
   Survey Data Integration into Database                                    $30,000.00
   Aug                                                                      $315,000.00
   Crowd Source Data Integration Process Definition                         $30,000.00
   Hydrologic Data Assimilation into Database                               $30,000.00
   Hydrologic Model Execution Prototype Report                              $50,000.00
   Operational Hydrologic Model Report                                      $50,000.00
   RTHS Install 2                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 3                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 4                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 5                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 6                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 7                                                           $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 8                                                           $15,000.00
   Tier 1 Data Extraction Code Deployment Report                            $50,000.00
   Sep                                                                      $221,000.00
Hydraulic Model Data File Construction Code Deployment                      $50,000.00
   RTHS Install 10                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 11                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 12                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 13                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 14                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 15                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 9                                                           $15,000.00
   Site Access Approval                                                     $66,000.00
   **Qtr4**                                                                 **$1,005,500.00**
   Oct                                                                      $483,000.00
   End-User Interface Development Report                                    $50,000.00
   Other Hydraulic Asset Surveys                                            $100,000.00
   RTHS Install 16                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 17                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 18                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 19                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 20                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 21                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 22                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Transect Surveys                                                    $220,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 3                                                  $8,000.00
   Nov                                                                      $205,000.00
   Hydraulic Model Execution Protoype Report                                $50,000.00
   Operational Hydraulic Model                                              $50,000.00
   RTHS Install 23                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 24                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 25                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 26                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 27                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 28                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 29                                                          $15,000.00
   Dec                                                                      $317,500.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 1                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 2                                                    $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 30                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 31                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 32                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 33                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 34                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 35                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 36                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 37                                                          $15,000.00
   Tier 1 Implementation                                                    $25,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Development: Hidalgo/Willacy Drain     $40,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Development: IBWC Floodway             $40,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Instantiation: IBWC Floodway           $50,000.00
   Tier 1 Real-Time Model Requirements Determination                        $12,500.00
   **2022**                                                                 **$1,489,500.00**
   **Qtr1**                                                                 **$608,000.00**
   Jan                                                                      $330,500.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 3                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 4                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 5                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 6                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 7                                                    $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 8                                                    $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 38                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 39                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 40                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 41                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 42                                                          $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 43                                                          $15,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 4                                                  $8,000.00
   Tier 1 Deployment                                                        $12,500.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Development: Raymondville Drain        $40,000.00
Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Development: Rio Grande/Arroyo Colorado   $40,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Instantiation: Hidalgo/Willacy Drain   $50,000.00
   Feb                                                                      $215,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 10                                                   $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 11                                                   $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 12                                                   $15,000.00
   ADCP Add-on Install 9                                                    $15,000.00
   RTHS Install 44                                                          $15,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Development: Brownsville Ship Channel  $40,000.00
   Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Instantiation: Raymondville Drain      $50,000.00
Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Instantiation: Rio Grande/Arroyo Colorado $50,000.00
   Mar                                                                      $62,500.00
Tier 1 Real Time Hydrologic Model Instantiation: Brownsville Ship Channel   $50,000.00
   Tier 2 Sub-Regional Model Requirements Determination                     $12,500.00
   **Qtr2**                                                                 **$225,500.00**
   Apr                                                                      $95,500.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 5                                                  $8,000.00
   Tier 2 Deployment                                                        $12,500.00
   Tier 2 Implementation                                                    $25,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 1         $30,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 1       $20,000.00
   May                                                                      $80,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 2         $30,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 3         $30,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 2       $20,000.00
   Jun                                                                      $50,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 4         $30,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 3       $20,000.00
   **Qtr3**                                                                 **$310,500.00**
   Jul                                                                      $58,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 6                                                  $8,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 5         $30,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 4       $20,000.00
   Aug                                                                      $120,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 1                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 2                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 3                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 4                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 5                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 6                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 7                                                        $10,000.00
Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Development - HUC10 6         $30,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 5       $20,000.00
   Sep                                                                      $132,500.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 10                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 11                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 12                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 13                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 14                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 8                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 9                                                        $10,000.00
   Tier 2 On-Demand Sub-Regional Hydraulic Model Validation - HUC10 6       $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Model Requirements Determination                            $12,500.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 1                              $30,000.00
   **Qtr4**                                                                 **$345,500.00**
   Oct                                                                      $145,500.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 15                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 16                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 17                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 18                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 19                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 20                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 21                                                       $10,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 7                                                  $8,000.00
   Tier 3 Deployment                                                        $12,500.00
   Tier 3 Implementation                                                    $25,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 2                              $30,000.00
   Nov                                                                      $100,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 22                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 23                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 24                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 25                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 26                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 27                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 28                                                       $10,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 3                              $30,000.00
   Dec                                                                      $100,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 29                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 30                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 31                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 32                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 33                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 34                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 35                                                       $10,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 4                              $30,000.00
   **2023**                                                                 **$1,192,000.00**
   **Qtr1**                                                                 **$338,000.00**
   Jan                                                                      $178,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 1                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 2                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 3                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 4                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 5                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 6                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 7                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 36                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 37                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 38                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 39                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 40                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 41                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 42                                                       $10,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 8                                                  $8,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 5                              $30,000.00
   Feb                                                                      $100,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 10                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 11                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 12                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 8                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 2 9                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 43                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 2 44                                                       $10,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 6                              $30,000.00
   Mar                                                                      $60,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 7                              $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 8                              $30,000.00
   **Qtr2**                                                                 **$158,000.00**
   Apr                                                                      $58,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 9                                                  $8,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 9                              $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 1                               $20,000.00
   May                                                                      $50,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 10                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 2                               $20,000.00
   Jun                                                                      $50,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 11                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 3                               $20,000.00
   **Qtr3**                                                                 **$298,000.00**
   Jul                                                                      $58,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 10                                                 $8,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 12                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 4                               $20,000.00
   Aug                                                                      $120,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 1                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 2                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 3                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 4                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 5                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 6                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 7                                                        $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 13                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 5                               $20,000.00
   Sep                                                                      $120,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 10                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 11                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 12                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 13                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 14                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 8                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 9                                                        $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 14                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 6                               $20,000.00
   **Qtr4**                                                                 **$398,000.00**
   Oct                                                                      $158,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 15                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 16                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 17                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 18                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 19                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 20                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 21                                                       $10,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 11                                                 $8,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 15                                $30,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 16                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 7                               $20,000.00
   Nov                                                                      $120,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 22                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 23                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 24                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 25                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 26                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 27                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 28                                                       $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 17                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 8                               $20,000.00
   Dec                                                                      $120,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 29                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 30                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 31                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 32                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 33                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 34                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 35                                                       $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 18                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 9                               $20,000.00
   **2024**                                                                 **$500,000.00**
   **Qtr1**                                                                 **$340,000.00**
   Jan                                                                      $200,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 1                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 2                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 3                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 4                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 5                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 6                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 7                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 36                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 37                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 38                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 39                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 40                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 41                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 42                                                       $10,000.00
   RWRAC Briefing Report 12                                                 $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 19                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 10                              $20,000.00
   Feb                                                                      $120,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 10                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 11                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 12                                                       $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 8                                                        $10,000.00
   ADCP O&M Year 3 9                                                        $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 43                                                       $10,000.00
   RTHS O&M Year 3 44                                                       $10,000.00
Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Development 20                                $30,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 11                              $20,000.00
   Mar                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 12                              $20,000.00
   **Qtr2**                                                                 **$60,000.00**
   Apr                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 13                              $20,000.00
   May                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 14                              $20,000.00
   Jun                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 15                              $20,000.00
   **Qtr3**                                                                 **$60,000.00**
   Jul                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 16                              $20,000.00
   Aug                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 17                              $20,000.00
   Sep                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 18                              $20,000.00
   **Qtr4**                                                                 **$40,000.00**
   Oct                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 19                              $20,000.00
   Nov                                                                      $20,000.00
   Tier 3 Urban Stormwater Model Validation 20                              $20,000.00
   **Grand Total**                                                          **$5,500,000.00**
===========================================================================
=================

.. _section-1:

.. _section-2:

.. _section-3:

.. _section-4:

.. _section-5:

.. _section-6:

.. _section-7:

.. _section-8:

**Exhibit D**
             

| Guidelines for Authors Submitting Contract Reports
| to the Texas Water Development Board

**1.0 Introduction**
====================

The purpose of this document is to describe the required format of
contract reports submitted to the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB).
Our reason for standardizing the format of contract reports is to
provide our customers a consistent, and therefore familiar, format for
contract reports (which we post online for public access). Another
reason for standardizing the format is so that we can more easily turn a
contract report into a TWDB numbered report if we so choose. Remember
that your report will not only be seen by TWDB staff, but also by any
person interested in the results of your study. A professional and
high-quality report will reflect well on you, your employer, and the
TWDB.

Available upon request, we will provide a Microsoft Word template (used
to write these instructions) that gives the fonts, spacing, and other
specifications for the headings and text of the report. Please follow
this template as closely as possible.

.. _section-9:

**2.0 Formatting your report**
==============================

The TWDB format is designed for simplicity. For example, we use Times
New Roman for all text. We use 12 point, single-spaced text, left
justification for paragraph text, 18 point bold for first-level
headings, and 14 point bold for second-level headings. Page numbers are
centered at the bottom of the page. Other than page numbers, please
refrain from adding content to the document header or footer. Page setup
should use one-inch margins on all four sides.

2.1 Text
--------

The best way to format your document is to use the styles described and
embedded in the template document (Authors_Template.dot) that is
available on request from the TWDB. To use the Authors_Template.dot
file, open it in Word (make sure \*.dot is listed under Files of type)
and save it as a .doc file. Advanced users can add the .dot file to
their computers as a template.

Make sure the formatting bar is on the desktop (to open, go to
ViewToolbarsFormatting) or, to view all of the formatting at once, go to
FormatStyles and Formatting and select Available Styles from the
dropdown box at the bottom of the window. The formatting in the template
document provides styles (such as font type, spacing, and indents) for
each piece of your report. Each style is named to describe what it
should be used for (for example, style names include Chapter Title, Body
Text, Heading 1, References, and Figure or Table Caption). As you add to
your report, use the dropdown list on the Formatting Toolbar or the list
in the Styles and Formatting window to adjust the text to the correct
style. The Authors_Template.dot file shows and lists the specifications
for each style.

*2.1.1 Title*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Give your report a title that gives the reader an idea of the topic of
your report but is not terribly long. In addition to the general subject
(for example, “Droughts”), you may include a few additional words to
describe a place, methodology, or other detail focused on throughout the
paper (for example, “Droughts in the High Plains of Texas” or
“Evaluating the effects of drought using groundwater flow modeling”).
Please capitalize only the first letter of each word except ‘minor’
words such as ‘and’ and ‘of’. Never use all caps. Use headings to help
the reader follow you through the main sections of your report and to
make it easier for readers to skim through your report to find sections
that might be the most interesting or useful to them. The text of the
report should include an executive summary and sections outlined in 4.4
of Attachment 1. Headings for up to five levels of subdivision are
provided in the template; however, we suggest not using more than three
or four levels of subdivision except where absolutely necessary. Please
avoid stacked headings (for example, a Heading 1 followed immediately by
a Heading 2) and capitalize only the first letter of headings or words
where appropriate—never use all caps.

2.2 Figures and photographs
---------------------------

To publish professional-looking graphics, **we need all originals to be
saved at 300 dots-per-inch** (dpi) and in grayscale, if possible, or in
the CMYK color format if color is necessary. Excessive use of color,
especially color graphics that do not also work in grayscale, will
prevent us from publishing your report as a TWDB numbered report (color
reproduction costs can be prohibitive). Preferred file formats for your
original graphics are Adobe Illustrator (.ai), Photoshop (.psd), EPS
with .tiff preview, .jpg, .png, or .tiff files. Refrain from using low
resolution .jpg or .gif files. Internet images at 72 dpi are
unacceptable for use in reports. All graphics shall be submitted in two
forms:

1. Inserted into the Microsoft Word document before you submit your
   report. Ideally, inserted graphics should be centered on the page.
   Format the picture to downsize to 6 inches wide if necessary. Please
   do not upsize a graphic in Word.

1. Saved in one of the formats listed above.

*2.2.1 Other graphics specifications*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is easiest to design your figures separately and add them in after
the text of your report is complete. Graphics should remain within the
1-inch page margins of the template (6 inches maximum graphic width). Be
sure that the graphics (as well as tables) are numbered in the same
order that they are mentioned in the text. Figures should appear
embedded in the report after being called out in the text. Also,
remember to include a caption for each graphic in Word, not as part of
the graphic. We are not able to edit or format figure captions that are
part of the figure. For figures and photographs, the caption should
appear below the graphic. For tables, the caption should appear above.

*2.2.2 Creating publication-quality graphics*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When designing a graphic, make sure that the graphic (1) emphasizes the
important information and does not show unnecessary data, lines, or
labels; (2) includes the needed support material for the reader to
understand what you are showing; and (3) is readable (see Figures 1 and
2 for examples). Edward R. Tufte’s books on presenting information
(Tufte, 1983; 1990; 1997) are great references on good graphic design.
Cole Nussbaumer Knaflic’s website *Storytelling With Data* also provides
freely accessible resources for designing infographics and data
visualizations (http://www.storytellingwithdata.com/blog). Figures 1
through 3 are examples of properly formatted, easy to understand
graphics. Do not include fonts that are less than 6 points.

For good-looking graphics, the resolution needs to be high enough to
provide a clear image at the size you make them within the report. In
general, 300 dpi will make a clear image and is the minimum resolution
for all situations. Try to create your figures at the same size they
will be in the report, as resizing them in Word greatly reduces image
quality. Photographs taken with at least a two-megapixel camera (if
using digital) and with good contrast will make the best images. Save
the original, and then adjust color levels and size in a renamed image
copy. Print a draft copy of your report to double-check that your
figures and photographs have clear lines and show all the features that
you want them to have.

Figures and photographs should be in grayscale. Color greatly adds to
the cost of printing, so we are trying to keep it to a minimum. Also
remember that your report may be photocopied, scanned, or downloaded and
printed in black and white. For this reason, you should use symbols or
patterns, or make sure that colors print as different shades in black
and white. All interval or ratio data (data measuring continuous
phenomena, with each color representing an equal interval) need to be
displayed in a graded scale of a single color (Figure 3). This way your
figures will be useful even as a photocopy.

If you need help with your graphics or have questions, please contact
the TWDB graphics department at (512)936-0129.

*2.2.3* *Use of Figures, Graphics, and Photographs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figures, photographs, and tables need to be your own unless you have
written permission from the creator, publisher, or copyright holder that
allows us to reprint them (we will need a copy of this permission for
copyrighted material our records). All figures and photographs must cite
the source in the legend, and include whether the material is in the
public domain, used under a Creative Commons License
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/), or used with permission of the
copyright holder. Use caution when using any figures or photographs
taken off the Internet or from newspapers or magazines—these sources may
be subject to copyright and must be cited properly and/or used by
permission.

2.3 Tables
----------

Tables should be created in Microsoft Word (see Table 1). Tables should
include a minimal amount of outlining or bold font to emphasize
headings, totals, or other important points. Tables should be numbered
separately from figures, and captions should appear above the text of
the table.

Table 1: A sample table. Note caption above table.

Table text heading\*

========== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ====
Table text 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 %GW
========== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ====
Table text 15   441  340  926  196  522  83   97.4
Table text 64   944  626  173  356  171  516  99.9
Total      79   1385 966  1099 552  693  599 
========== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== ====

| \* A footnote should look like this using 10 point Cambria.
| %GW = percent groundwater
| Be sure to describe any abbreviations or symbols, and, unlike in this
  table, be sure to note the units!

**3.0 Units**
=============

Measurements should be in English units. Metric units may be included in
parentheses after the English units.

.. _section-10:

**4.0 Citations and references**
================================

It is important to give credit for all external sources referenced in
your report. Therefore, be sure to use the appropriate citations and
include references in your paper.

4.1 In-text citations
---------------------

Each piece of information you use in your report that comes from an
outside source must be cited within the text using the author’s last
name and the year of publication. If there are two authors, list the
last name of each followed by the year, and if there are more than two
authors, list the last name of the first author followed by “and others”
and the year. For example: “the end of the Jurassic Period occurred
approximately 145.5 million years ago (Gradstein and others, 2004).”

4.2 References
--------------

All sources that are cited within the report should be listed at the end
of the paper under the heading References. The references should follow
the guidelines in “Suggestions to Authors of the Reports of the United
States Geological Survey” (Hansen, 1991). These are available online at
https://pubs.usgs.gov/unnumbered/7000088 (a link to the chapter
“Preparing references for Survey reports,” p. 234-241, is found at
https://pubs.usgs.gov/unnumbered/7000088/sta28.pdf ). Several examples
of complete reference citations are listed at the end of these
guidelines. Be sure that any citations that appear in tables or figures
are included in the reference list. Also, before submitting the report,
please check that all the citations in the report are included in the
reference list and all references in the reference list are cited in the
report.

.. _section-11:

**5.0 Submitting your report**
==============================

Before you submit your report, proofread it. Look for spelling and
grammatical errors. Also, check to see that you have structured the
headings, paragraphs, and sentences in your paper so that it is easy to
follow and understand (imagine you are a reader who does not already
know the information you are presenting).

.. _section-12:

**6.0 Conclusions**
===================

Following the instructions above and providing accurate and readable
text, tables, figures, and citations will help to make your report
useful to readers. Scientists may read your report, as well as water
planners, utility providers, and interested citizens. If your report
successfully conveys accurate scientific information and explanations to
these readers, we can help to create more informed decisions about the
use, development, and management of water in the state.

.. _section-13:

**7.0 Acknowledgments**
=======================

Be sure to acknowledge the people and entities that assisted you in your
study and report. For example:

We would like to thank the Keck Geology Consortium, the American Society
of Civil Engineers, and the Texas Bar CLE for providing examples to use
in developing these guidelines. In addition, we appreciate Mike Parcher
for providing information on how to create publication-quality graphics,
Shirley Wade for creating the data used in sample Figure 1, and Ian
Jones for providing sample Figure 3.

.. _references-1:

**8.0 References**
==================

Gradstein, F.M., J.G. Ogg, and A.G. Smith, eds., 2005, A geologic time
scale 2004: Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 610 p.

Hansen, W.R., ed., 1991, Suggestions to authors of the reports of the
United States Geological Survey (7th ed.): Washington, D.C., U.S.
Government Printing Office, 289 p.

Tufte, E. R., 1983, The visual display of quantitative information:
Cheshire, C.T., Graphics Press, 197 p.

Tufte, E. R., 1990, Envisioning information: Cheshire, C.T., Graphics
Press, 126 p.

Tufte, E. R., 1997, Visual explanations: Cheshire, C.T., Graphics Press,
156 p.

.. _section-14:

**9.0 Examples of references**
==============================

Arroyo, J. A., and Mullican, III, W. F., 2004, Desalination: *in* Mace,
R. E., Angle, E. S., and Mullican, W. F., III, editors, Aquifers of the
Edwards Plateau: Texas Water Development Board Report 360, p. 293-302.

Bates, R. L., and Jackson, J. A., 1984, Dictionary of geological terms:
Anchor Press/Doubleday, Garden City, New York, 571 p.

Blandford, T. N., Blazer, D. J., Calhoun, K. C., Dutton, A. R., Naing,
T., Reedy, R. C., and Scanlon, B. R., 2003, Groundwater availability of
the southern Ogallala aquifer in Texas and New Mexico–Numerical
simulations through 2050: contract report by Daniel B. Stephens and
Associates, Inc., and the Bureau of Economic Geology, The University of
Texas at Austin to the Texas Water Development Board, variably
paginated.

Fenneman, N. M., 1931, Physiography of Western United States (1st
edition): New York, McGraw-Hill, 534 p.

Hubert, M., 1999, Senate Bill 1–The first big bold step toward meeting
Texas's future water needs: Texas Tech Law Review, v. 30, no. 1, p.
53-70.

Kunianski, E. L., 1989, Precipitation, streamflow, and baseflow in
West-Central Texas, December 1974 through March 1977: U. S. Geological
Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 89-4208, 2 sheets.

Mace, R. E., Chowdhury, A. H., Anaya, R., and Way, S.-C., 2000, A
numerical groundwater flow model of the Upper and Middle Trinity
aquifer, Hill Country area: Texas Water Development Board Open File
Report 00-02, 62 p.

Maclay, R. W., and Land, L. F., 1988, Simulation of flow in the Edwards
aquifer, San Antonio Region, Texas, and refinements of storage and flow
concepts: U. S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 2336, 48 p.

For more examples of references, see p. 239-241 of “Suggestions to
Authors of the Reports of the United States Geological Survey” at
https://pubs.usgs.gov/unnumbered/7000088/sta28.pdf.

**10.0 Examples of figures**\ |fig10|

Figure 1. A sample figure showing only the information needed to help
the reader understand the data. Font size for figure callouts or labels
should never be less than 6 point.

|sample_fig|

Figure 2. A sample subject area map, giving the reader enough
information to understand the location being discussed in this
conference. For map figures, be sure to include a north arrow to orient
the reader, a scale, and, if needed, a submap that places the figure in
greater geographic context. Be sure that text is readable and that any
citations listed on the figure or in the figure caption are included in
the reference list. Font size should never be less than 6 point.

|FIG_06_03a ed|

Figure 3. Initial hydraulic heads used in model simulations for layer 1.
Note the use of grayscale shading to show differences

**EXHIBIT E**

**TWDB GUIDELINES FOR A PROGRESS REPORT**

Texas Water Development Board Borrowers/Grantees are required by their
contracts to provide Progress Reports according to the **“Payment
Request Schedule”.**

The progress report should contain the following standard elements:

-  Date: Date the memo is sent

-  To: Name and position of the reader

-  From: Name and position of the writer

-  Subject: TWDB Contract Number and the period that this report covers
      (i.e. Progress Report 09/01/18 – 11/30/18)

In-Kind Services: (*please include a value and description of any
in-kind services provided during the reporting period*)

Work Completed: *(Explain what work has been done during the reporting
period by Scope of Work task. Specify the dates of the reporting period
and use active voice verbs to report progress made. Please include any
updates on special conditions.)*

*For Example:*

Task 1: Completed 3 draft chapters and all appendices. Met with sub
consultants on their chapters.

Task 2: Completed sample collection throughout river reach.

Task 3: No work completed in reporting period.

Problems: (*If the reader is likely to be interested in the glitches you
have encountered along the way, mention the problems you have
encountered and explain how you have solved them. If there are problems
you have not yet been able to solve, explain your strategy for solving
them and tell the reader when you think you will have them solved.*)

.. |image0| image:: media/image1.jpeg
   :width: 4.56944in
   :height: 3.2226in
.. |image1| image:: media/image2.png
   :width: 5.26389in
   :height: 3.67431in
.. |image2| image:: media/image3.png
   :width: 2.84514in
   :height: 2.73819in
.. |image3| image:: media/image4.png
   :width: 3.00419in
   :height: 2.83333in
.. |image4| image:: media/image5.png
   :width: 4.07143in
   :height: 3.15826in
.. |fig10| image:: media/image6.jpeg
   :width: 5.925in
   :height: 3.15in
.. |sample_fig| image:: media/image7.png
   :width: 6in
   :height: 5.55833in
.. |FIG_06_03a ed| image:: media/image8.jpeg
   :width: 5.64167in
   :height: 3.9in
